EuCW Bulletin No 2021/01
========================

1) Invitation to join the International CW Council

The Long Island CW Club, our Associated Member (more info at:
https://longislandcwclub.org/membership/) has decided to build up
the “International CW Council” and EuCW Club is ready to join in.
A lot of cw Associations have already took part to the ICWC (and
others are coming in). ICWC aims are to spread the cw learning
and find common strategies to protect cw and the cw bands. We had
a virtual meeting in January (the participants were: AG-CW:
Karlheinz DK8KK; CWops: Rob K6RB, Stew GW0ETF, Dallas K1DW (abs),
Joe AA8TA; Essex CW UK: Andy G0IBN, Rob M0KCP; EUCW:  Michele
IZ2FME; FISTS UK: John M0CDL, Rob M0KCP, Paul M0BMM, Roger
MI0WWB; FOC: Ray G4FON; K1USN: Pi K1RV, Frank K1EBY, Rich K1DJ,
Rick N1DC; LICW: Howard WB2UZE, Jim W6JIM; NAQCC: Steve WB4OMM;
QRP ARCI: Dave NM0S; SKCC: Randy KB4QQJ, Ron AC2C, Dave W1DV
(abs); 4SQRP: Johnny AC0BQ). So, if your Clubs are interested to
join, please write an e-mail to Howard WB2UZE (wb2uze@yahoo.com);
we’ve a dropbox site and a groups.io forum to exchange ideas
about cw. Any suggestions will be very appreciated.

2) DK7VW is SK

Our award manager DK7VW is unfortunately SK, in early 2021, at
the age of 66 he passed away. He served as our contest manager
from 2006 to its final edition in 2013 hosting the EUCW
Fraternizing Party. Moreover, he served as manager of our EUCW
Award from 2005 to 2020, thus succeeding his predecessor, the
late OM Günther,
DJ2XP, in both functions. Werner recovered the remaining stock of
awards from Günther's family thus assuring the continuity of the
award. We will not forget him as a friend and co-worker of EUCW.
Since the 1980s Joe has been involved in the creation of such
well-known telegraphy associations as AGCW, EUCW, FOC and HSC.
For a time he was 1st chairman of the AGCW-DL; he was licenced in
the FCC with the extra-class call N7VW. Recently, he had joined
the "First Class CW Operators Club" (FOC) and the High Speed Club
(HSC from 1951) on February 8th, 1996 by applying for the HSC
award. We miss him.

3) FT8 operations at 3.547 Mhz

Every afternoon / evening until the early hours of the morning,
FT8 signals are often active on 3547 kHz, upper sideband; there
is a large number of South Korean stations using this QRG in
digital modes. Unfortunately, the 80m band in South Korea is very
narrow; in fact the cw / data / SSB range is from 3500 to 3550
kHz (there is another 10 kHz between 3790-3800 kHz). We’re trying
to find a solution with a IARU intervention. Any suggestions will
be evaluated (see: https://www.karl.or.kr/bbs/board.php?bo_table=
info&wr_id=15).

4) Do you know that … (something about the EuCW history)

Do you know when the EuCW was born and why? In 1978, SCAG took
the first initiative. Statutes were proposed on June, 1978 (These
statutes are re-printed in SCAG-NL #50 from April 1978).
According to these statutes only clubs with at least 100
individual members could be members. The leadership of EuCW
should rotate on a yearly base. The following year, in 1979, the
EuCW was founded officially. In 1986 there was an internal
discussion in SCAG whether or not to withdraw from EUCW, however,
the General Assembly of SCAG decided to remain in EUCW because a
majority understood the advantage of a united CW organization in
Europe. A weakness of the early years was the change of president
every year. The printing and posting of the bulletins was
expensive and more often than not, the presidents paid from their
own pocket. Therefore, several clubs decided not to host the
presidency. The tendency not being able to lead the EUCW went on
even in the Internet age. The present term should have been under
the rule of UFT. In 1987, DJ2XP takes over the Fraternizing
Party. The FP date changes from June to late November.
25.04.1987: SCAG assembly in TÃ¤by gives up plans for withdrawal
from EuCW. In 1988, Novice award of GQRP gets the status of an
official EuCW activity. EuCW Net (80 m QTC net) operative since
September. More info on our website (https://www.eucw.org/
eucwh.html).

I wish you all the best and stay safe!

IZ2FME MiKi
