EuCW Bulletin No 2024/04
========================

1) First I would like to truly apologize for a both somewhat delayed and
also considerably shorter Newsletter this time. The main reason is that I
have now ended my work assignment in Indonesia, and the beginning of
October has been busy with moving back from Jakarta to Moscow. But also to
be honest, a very limited amount of contributions from the clubs in EuCW :(
Please next time support me with your contributions and there are still
many clubs that never or very seldom share any activity. This is a sad
development honestly.

In one month I will probably start another international assignment, so
please stay tuned for updates regarding new location until the end of this
year. I have also slowly started to get my station on the air from Moscow
Region, but still only on 10-20 meters using my TS 590S, OM-2500 and the
SP7IDX hexbeam. My ambition is also to add at least 30 and 80 meter dipoles
before I leave for new adventures. Band conditions have been great, but of
course with high geomagnetic activity.

2. The International Amateur Radio Union (Region 3) is undertaking a review
of the 40 Metre Band Plan. This is being done under the banner of
Harmonisation, and seeks to address many of the inconsistencies in the 40
metre band plans across different countries and regions. You can review the
chart produced by the WIA in the link below illustrating the differences
between Band Plans across Region 3. One of Australia's representative
bodies, the Wireless Institute of Australia (WIA) has taken the lead on
behalf of the IARU, Region 3. Whilst this is a worthy aspiration, we are
concerned that the proposed solutions are discriminating against CW
operators. CW operators may end up with as little as 25kHz at the bottom of
the band. Indeed, one option will see our allocation restricted to 7000 -
7025kHz, which would also exclude some USA operators from the Band
altogether. The objective of this Save 40 metres CW initiative is to raise
awareness with CW operators worldwide and to advocate for a fair and
reasonable allocation on 40 metres for all CW operators.

How to navigate this website https://www.save40metrescw.com/ :

Read the Consultation Paper first.
Read and consider the Key Issues
Read the Call to Action
Stay up to date by visiting our News Blog from time to time

3) The G-QRP Club had a month-full of on-the-band activity in September,
with most of the regional variation of the Club callsign (G#5LOW) activated
during the month, ant seven overseas special event stations from all over
Europe. A real success, which saw dozens of operators on the bands, and
lots of CW activity. The next major Club event will be the Winter Sports.
This is NOT a contest, but more a gathering of likeminded souls on the
bands on, or around the QRP frequencies. This all takes place twixt the
Christmas pud and the New Years hangover.  To be more precise it runs from
Boxing Day until New Years Day inclusive.  The G4DQP Trophy is awarded
annually to the best log submitted of QRP contacts during the clubs Winter
Sports. All logs and claims must be sent to Enzo M0KTZ (via email) by 7th
February each year.

4) The HACWG held his annual "HA3NS Memorial Sprint Contest" on 1st June.
This very short -  one hour - contest became a popular CW event. Well over
100 CW fans from more than 20 countries participated in two categories. We
had 65 LP and 36 HP entrants. All participants had the possibilty two
download an online award after the contest. Results are available here:
https://log.mrasz.hu/results/6652071b0507c1dca92abe95/final?eventId=6652071b0507c1dca92abe95
 Thanks Lacy HA3NU (Chairman of HACWG) for the contribution.

5) YL3JD, Hans informs us of the Latvian Mechanical Key Activity, Friday
the 11th of October. Time : Start 18:00 UTC till 19:00 UTC. Duration 1
hour. Exchange : RST AGE/Type of key. Band : 80 meters Type of key : S for
Straight key B for Bug
C for Cootie or Side Swiper. For 2024 the dates are set to: 11 Oct   2024
 –   18:00 UTC 06 Dec  2024  –    18:00 UTC  Hope to hear you all on Friday
the 11th with great sounding mechanical key music. All information, log
upload and certificates can be found on: https://yl3jd.fizioikskile.lv/mkey/


6) For 2025 AGCW invites all EUCW friends to participate in its permanent
activities:

AGCW Activities:

A) Friendship Activity: AGCW fosters friendships and rag chews on the top 5
kHz of all CW only bands. Submit all QSOs over a duration of 10 minutes. (
eucw.org/agcw/fsa.txt)

B) Bug and Cootie Activity: This promotes the use of bugs and sideswipers
on the top 10 kHz, Submit all B+C QSOs there over a duration of 5 min, even
those with users of other keys. (eucw.org/agcw/buc.txt).

Both activities are widely compatible with EUCW's Snakes and Ladders and
ICWC's Top9 activity. AGCW applies synergy instead of competing with these
great CW on-air activities. This means that many if not most contacts in
our activities do qualify vor Top9 and S+L, too. Upcoming AGCW Contests:

16-10-2024 Semi-Automatic Party (eucw.org/agcw/semi.txt).
01-01-2025 Happy New Year Contest (eucw.org/agcw/hny.txt).

While contests are fun to some of us they are just hay fires in terms of
band occupancy. Therefore, we strongly recommend the permanent activities
because they are more resilient, and they take place where the CW community
struggles with intruders. Unless we use our frequencies we will lose them.

Eyeball meetings: Future meetings will be held near Fulda (JO40sm46) in
central Germany.

7) Although not exactly a club activity, but still a very interesting CW
activity, Vlado Z35M from MCWG made a HF actication (CW of course) on
22.9.2024 from a cable car cabin, second time after first attempt in 2018.
This time two CW QSOs (OZ and LY) were done on 20m CW with a power of 5W
and a short vertical antenna. The entire activation lasted 10 minutes in a
cabin with four other unknown persons. Probably the first such QSOs
globally. CW from everywhere!


73 de Mats RM2D (SM6LRR, SJ6R and YB0LRR)

_______________________________________________
EuCW mailing list
EuCW@lists.posteo.de
https://lists.posteo.de/listinfo/eucw
